Add Android Studio Page (#69)
Coppersource/gm0: source/docs/software/using-android-studio.rst

Android Studio because it caches information about
your project structure.

The most common way to fix these errors is to do an invalidate
and restart. In the file dropdown, there will be an option for
this and then you will choose Invalidate and Restart. This clears
the cache and restarts your Android Studio, which then should
perform a gradle rebuild.

Adding Dependencies
-------------------
If you want to add dependencies to your project, you can do so
in the :code:`build.gradle` file in the TeamCode directory.

There should be a dependencies block at the bottom of the file.

.. image:: images/using-android-studio/teamcode-gradle.png

Some dependencies require changes to your other gradle files.
Make sure to read the installation instructions for whatever
gradle dependency you want to add.

Next, you add a line in the dependencies block to implement
the dependency. This is generally done with
:code:`implementation ''`.

.. image:: images/using-android-studio/add-dependency.png
    :alt: Add the dependency using implementation

Finally, perform a gradle sync.

Android Debug Bridge
====================

Version Control
===============

> Version control is be extremely useful tool. It allows for looking at (and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Version control is an extremely useful tool. It allows for looking at (and
```

Android app development based on IntelliJ. It compiles
your code to an apk which is then installed onto the
Robot Controller: either the Control Hub or a
legal Android phone.

Downloading Android Studio
==========================

If you've already downloaded Android Studio, you can
move on to the next step, which is
`setting up the SDK <#setting-up-the-sdk>`_.

The steps to download and setup Android Studio are:

#. Check to make sure your system meets
   the `necessary requirements <https://developer.android.com/studio#Requirements>`_
#. Install the *latest* version of Android Studio from
   https://developer.android.com/studio/index.html
#. Run the executable, follow the setup wizard, and use
   any and all recommended development kits

Setting up the SDK
==================
Now that you have Android Studio installed,
you're going to want to use the current season's
SDK (software development kit) where you will
create your team's code.

Downloading the SDK
-------------------
The SDK is publicly released to a GitHub
repository every season. The current season's
SDK can be found in the
`FtcRobotController <https://github.com/FIRST-Tech-Challenge/FtcRobotController>`_
repository.

> Downloading the Zip

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Downloading the ZIP
```

Opening the SDK on Android Studio
---------------------------------
#. Open Android Studio. If you have another project open, close it.

   .. image:: images/using-android-studio/opening-as.png
      :width: 50em
      :alt: A screen should appear with an option to configure
            settings and import a project

#. Check for updates. Click on the "configure"
   dropdown and select "check for updates."
   If you do not have the latest version,
   download the updates.

   .. image:: images/using-android-studio/check-for-updates.png
      :alt: If you have no new updates, it should say that
            you have the latest version installed

#. Select "Import Project." Navigate to where you have
   the SDK saved on your computer. Choose the directory
   that has the Android logo.

   .. image:: images/using-android-studio/select-the-sdk.png
      :alt: Only select the folder with the Android logo

#. Change to project view. In the top left corner
   should be a dropdown that allows you to change the
   way you are looking at your project.

   .. image:: images/using-android-studio/select-project-view.png
      :alt: Change to project view

> #. Wait for `gradle <Gradle>`_ to complete the build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Wait for `Gradle`_ to complete the build.
```
Gradle is a proper noun and should therefore always be capitalized.

   .. image:: images/using-android-studio/build-gradle.png
      :width: 50em

Layout
======

> Android Studio can look menacing at first glance, but

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Android Studio can look intimidating at first glance, but
```
It's just a more fitting word imo :shrug:

there are only a few features needed to use it
properly.

.. image:: images/using-android-studio/as-layout.png
    :alt: Android Studio layout
    :width: 50em

Creating Classes
----------------
The first thing to note in the project view
is the dropdown with the name of the
project. If you drop that down, you will

> see all of the gradle files and directories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
see all of the Gradle files and directories.
```

`here <https://developer.android.com/studio/debug/am-logcat>`_.

.. note::
    You can build your program through the commandline
    via the local terminal. Click on the terminal
    tab and then input :code:`gradlew :TeamCode:clean :TeamCode:build`.
    This will delete the previously compiled files and
    build your TeamCode module.

Installing Your Program
-----------------------
To install your program onto the Robot Controller,
you will use the play button located near the top right
of the application window.

.. image:: images/using-android-studio/build-and-run.png
    :alt: Play button next to device dropdown

Next to it you will see a dropdown
for devices. When you connect your Robot Controller
to your computer (using the correct cable),
the device should appear in the dropdown after some time.
Then, click the play button and your program will install
onto the device.

If you run into any problems with this process,
refer to the official
`REV documentation <https://docs.revrobotics.com/rev-control-system/>`_.

Gradle
======
Gradle is a build tool for software development.
In the scope of FTC, it is used to build and manage dependencies
for your project.

> When you update any of your gradle files you will need to perform a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you update any of your Gradle files you will need to perform a
```

> gradle sync, which syncs your project to the changes and rebuilds it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gradle sync, which syncs your project to the changes and rebuilds it.
```

.. image:: images/using-android-studio/gradle-build.png
    :alt: The build dropdown at the top of the screen

To rebuild from a clean project, press the clean project option.
This removes old compiled files from your project so you
can completely rebuild your project. It clears any production
files, generated files, etc. This is useful for making sure
old artifacts don't break anything when you build your code.
When you next build your project,
it will do so from scratch with no old compiled files to which
it can refer. To rebuild your project, press the rebuild option.

Invalidate and Restart
----------------------
Sometimes you can get errors after moving things around,
refactoring, etc. The first step is to try cleaning the project
and doing a rebuild. If this doesn't work, you might have confused
Android Studio because it caches information about
your project structure.

The most common way to fix these errors is to do an invalidate
and restart. In the file dropdown, there will be an option for
this and then you will choose Invalidate and Restart. This clears
the cache and restarts your Android Studio, which then should

> perform a gradle rebuild.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
perform a Gradle rebuild.
```

Adding Dependencies
-------------------
If you want to add dependencies to your project, you can do so
in the :code:`build.gradle` file in the TeamCode directory.

There should be a dependencies block at the bottom of the file.

.. image:: images/using-android-studio/teamcode-gradle.png

> Some dependencies require changes to your other gradle files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some dependencies require changes to your other Gradle files.
```

Make sure to read the installation instructions for whatever

> gradle dependency you want to add.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dependency you want to add.
```
The use of "gradle" is redundant.

ADB should come with the platform tools in Android Studio.
Navigate to your :code:`local.properties` file in the root
of your project and you should see a path to the Android SDK
on your computer, such as
:code:`C:\Users\Woodie\AppData\Local\Android\Sdk`.
Then navigate to :code:`platform-tools` and an application
called adb should be there. To use it, open CLI (like
powershell or command prompt) and run either
:code:`adb devices` or :code:`./adb devices`.

For more information on ADB, you can look at the
`developers page <https://developer.android.com/studio/command-line/adb>`_.

Setting Up ADB
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
#.  Ensure USB debugging is enabled on your device and it is
    in developer mode.

#.  Make sure you have ADB installed. If you do not, follow
    the instructions at `this link <https://www.xda-developers.com/install-adb-windows-macos-linux/>`_

#.  Connect to the same WiFi network the device is either hosting or on.

.. note::
    You can use logcat via ADB with the
    :code:`adb logcat` command. This is extremely useful for
    debugging as it allows you to look at the logs wirelessly
    which saves time. Remember, logcat is the *best* way
    to debug your software.

> Connecting to a Phone
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connecting to a Phone Wirelessly
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

#.  Plug the robot controller phone into your computer.

#.  Run the command :code:`adb devices` in the :code:`platform-tools`
    directory and see if the phone shows up.

#.  Run :code:`adb usb` and then :code:`adb tcpip 5555`. You
    can then unplug the phone.

#.  Connect to the phone using :code:`adb connect 192.168.49.1:5555`.
    If this doesn't work, recheck the IP address of the phone and
    try again with that IP address if it is different.

> Connecting to a Control Hub
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connecting to a Control Hub Wirelessly
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

Android Debug Bridge
====================

Logcat
------

> The logcat is extremely useful for debugging issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Logcat is extremely useful for debugging issues
```

with your code at runtime or figuring out what went wrong.
For example, if your app activity crashes and you pull up

> the log seeing 400 pages of something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the log seeing 5000 lines of something like this:
```

.. image:: images/using-android-studio/infinite-recursion.png
    :alt: Infinite recursion

then, you know that there is infinite recursion somewhere
in your program.

> To use the logcat, plug in your device (or connect via ADB).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use logcat, plug in your device (or connect via ADB).
```

Then, select the app you want to view the logs for. Your window
should look like this.

.. image:: images/using-android-studio/logcat-window.png
    :alt: A selected device and app with the error messages

> If you have an issue you don't understand, you can print

Reviewer: Leaving this here will lead to a *lot* of pointless issues on the SDK repo... maybe suggest the FTC discord? :shrug:

Author: Ah good point. Sometimes issues can be resolved just by having someone who understands error messages read it. Good call, I'll change that.

a PDF (option 5) of the log and open an issue on the
SDK repository.

Wireless Communication
----------------------

> The Android Debug Bridge (or ADB) is a command-line

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Android Debug Bridge (ADB) is a command-line
```

tool that allows for wireless communication between the
robot controller (phone or Control Hub).

Setting Up ADB
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
#.  Ensure USB debugging is enabled on your device and it is
    in developer mode.

#.  Make sure you have ADB installed. If you do not, follow
    the instructions at `this link <https://www.xda-developers.com/install-adb-windows-macos-linux/>`_

#.  Connect to the same WiFi network the device is either hosting or on.

> Connecting to the Phone

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connecting to a Phone
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
#.  Plug the robot controller phone into your computer.

#.  Run the command :code:`adb devices` in the :code:`platform-tools`
    directory and see if the phone shows up.

#.  Run :code:`adb usb` and then :code:`adb tcpip 5555`. You
    can then unplug the phone.

#.  Connect to the phone using :code:`adb connect 192.168.49.1:5555`.
    If this doesn't work, recheck the IP address of the phone and
    try again with that IP address if it is different.

> Connecting to the Control Hub

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connecting to a Control Hub
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Once you're connected to the Control Hub's network,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you're connected to a Control Hub's network,
```

> you simply need to connect to the device using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you simply need to connect to it using
```

:code:`adb connect 192.168.43.1:5555`.

> Once a connection is established, the device should appear

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a connection is established, it should appear
```
